# Syllabus and Material for High Performance Programming and Systems (HPPS)

**Still under construction**

Welcome to the course website for HPPS!  While assignment handin is
still on Absalon, all material and information will be located here.
You are not expected to treat this repository as anything more than a
website, but feel free to clone it if you are already comfortable with
Git.

## Basics

HPPS takes place in block 2.  There are three kinds of in-person
teaching activities: **lectures**, **exercises** and the **study
café**.  All take place physically on campus.

**Lectures** are mostly conventional, but may use aspects of the
[flipped classroom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flipped_classroom)
approach.

**Exercises** are conducted in four smaller classes, each conducted by
a teaching assistant (TA).  An exercise session involves working on
problems that will help you learn the curriculum, and in many cases
directly train you in the skills you will need for the mandatory
assignments.

**Study cafés** are places where you can get assistance with the
mandatory assignments.

**This course website** is used for handing out material.

**Discord** can be used for asking questions. ([Invite link](https://discord.gg/rEs865W5SA))

**Absalon** is used for handing in assignments and for course announcements.

## Textbook

The textbooks are as follows:

* **JG:** [Modern C](https://modernc.gforge.inria.fr/) ([CC-licensed PDF](https://hal.inria.fr/hal-02383654/document))

* **HPPS:** [HPPS course notes](notes.pdf) - **these will be updated as the
  course progresses, so make sure to regularly check that you have
  the newest version**

## Schedule

### Tuesday

* **Lecture:** 10:00-12:00 (Aud 05, HCØ).

### Thursday

* **Exercises:** 10:00-12:00

* **Lecture:** 13:00-15:00 (Aud 05, HCØ)

* **Exercises:** 15:00-17:00

Exercises are split along six *hold*.  Due to space limitations, two *hold*
share a single room:

* **Hold 1+2:** 1-0-04 (DIKU)

* **Hold 3+4:** 1-0-37 (DIKU)

* **Hold 5+6:** 3-0-25 (DIKU)

### Friday

TBD

## Assignments

There are 5 assignment in total during the course with deadlines
roughly every week.

The assignments will be graded with points from 0 to 4 and it is not
possible to re-hand-in any of the assignments.

Assignments are made to be solved in groups of preferably three
students, but groups of two active students will also do. We strongly
encourage you not to work alone. Groups cannot be larger than three
students. Each group must make their own solutions and cannot share
implementations and report with other. You may however discuss
material and ideas.

### A1

* **Handout:** 24/11

* **Handin deadline:** 4/12

### A2

* **Handout:** 8/12

* **Handin deadline:** 18/12

### A3

* **Handout:** 15/12

* **Handin deadline:** 22/12

### A4

* **Handout:** 22/12

* **Handin deadline:** 8/1

### A5

* **Handout:** 5/1

* **Handin deadline:** 14/1

## Study café

TBD

## Exam qualification

To qualify for the exam you are required to achieve at least 50% of
the total number of points in the *first four* assignments (that is, 8
points at minimum). You also need to get *at least* one point in each
of the first four assignment.

## Exam date

The exam is a take-home exam held in January.  It has an estimated
workload of 20 hours.  It will involve practical programming and
performance analysis of programs.

## Languages

All written material will be in **English**.

Most oral teaching will be in **Danish** or **English**, depending on
the specific teacher or TA.

You will mainly be programming in **C** and **Python**.

## Software

You will be using a Unix command line and Unix tools for much of the
course.  [See the Unix software guide.](unix.md)

See also [this guide on the GDB
debugger](http://beej.us/guide/bggdb/), which is a very useful tool
for debugging C programs.

If you prefer an IDE see the [VS Code installation and setup guide](VSCode.md).

## People

The teachers are

* Troels Henriksen <athas@sigkill.dk>
* David Gray Marchant <david.marchant@di.ku.dk>

The TAs are

* Axel Højmark <axho@di.ku.dk>

* Gunnar Magnussen <vcd948@alumni.ku.dk>

* Mikkel Willén <bmq419@alumni.ku.dk>

* Jacob Christian Herbst <mwr148@alumni.ku.dk>

* Jonatan Ruiz-Molsgaard <tnc197@alumni.ku.dk>

* Rasmus Damgaard Nielsen <rasmus.damgaard@nbi.ku.dk>

## Exam format

The exam will be a take-home exam that will be very similar in form to
the mandatory assignments.

## Course plan

Each teaching activity has an associated subdirectory here on GitHub
that lists expected reading and other material.  Direct links below.

* **Week 1**

  * Tuesday lecture 22/11

  * Thursday morning exercises 24/11

  * Thursday lecture 24/11

  * Thursday afternoon exercises 24/11

* **Week 2**

  * Tuesday lecture 29/11

  * Thursday morning exercises 1/12

  * Thursday lecture 1/12

  * Thursday afternoon exercises 1/12

* **Week 3**

  * Tuesday lecture 6/12

  * Thursday morning exercises 8/12

  * Thursday lecture 8/12

  * Thursday afternoon exercises 8/12

* **Week 4**

  * Tuesday lecture 13/12

  * Thursday morning exercises 15/12

  * Thursday lecture 15/12

  * Thursday afternoon exercises 15/12

* **Week 5**

  * Tuesday lecture 20/12

  * Thursday morning exercises 22/12

  * Thursday lecture 22/12

  * Thursday afternoon exercises 22/12

* **Week 6**

  * Tuesday lecture 2/1

  * Thursday morning exercises 4/1

  * Thursday lecture 4/1

  * Thursday afternoon exercises 4/1

* **Week 7**

  * Tuesday lecture 9/1

  * Thursday morning exercises 11/1

  * Thursday lecture 11/1

  * Thursday afternoon exercises 11/1

* **Week 8**

  * Take-home exam (precise days TBA).
